[SOUND] So in this video,
we are going to discuss,
not in full details, but in some kind
of hand wavy way of how to apply
Algorithm to the probabilistic
principal component analysis.
So let's look at the E-step first.
On E-step we have to set
q to be the Gaussian
distribution on our latent variable t.
So ti given xi and theta.
And in general, it's proportional
to what the join distribution.
So to the x,q and t times q of t
divide by some normalization constant.
And in general this normalization
constant is hard to
compute because it's
an integral of respect to xi.
But in this case It will not
cause us any trouble because
we were able to compute normal
values because everything is normal.
Everything is conjugate and
this link will also be normal and
you can look up the formulas for
mutil in Wikipedia.
So E-step is easy.
We can easily find
everything analytically.
What about the M-step?
On the M-step we're trying to
maximize the expected value of
the logarithm of the joint distribution.
So we can rewrite this formula as,
we can swap summation and
expected value, and
we'll get some respect to in the data set.
Expected value, respect of q of qi,
of logarithm of our p of x and
q of i, times q of i.
What is this?
Well, p of q,
q of i is some normalization,
times normal distribution,
which is something on the exponent.
And p of j is also some
normalization times exponent and
some normal distribution.
So first of all we can notice that since
logarithm of product is sum of logarithms,
and since the normalization constant
z doesn't depend on qi at all,
then we can rewrite it as follows.
So we don't have to find the expected
value of logarithm of 1 divided by z.
Because it doesn't depend on qi, and
it's expected value just equals to
logarithm 1 divided by itself, right?
Then the second term here is expected
value of logarithm of sum exponents.
And the second exponent is the prior.
It's minus 2i squared by 2, divided by 2.
In the one dimensional case,
so if qi is one dimensional.
And the first exponent is some
quadratic function of qi,
which basically mirrors the distance
between the actual point xi and
the projection of the ti into
two dimensional space or
most dimensional space in general.
So, this thing if you calculate it,
it's some quadratic function
with respect to Gi.
So logarithm of this exponent products is
quadratic function with respect to gi.
And in general, computing
the expected value here can be hard.
But in practice,
q is normal distribution, and
expected value of some
quadratic function with
respect to a normal
distribution is not that hard.
So we're going to easily analyze and
compute this expected value.
Then what is left is some actually concave
function in respect to parameters.
Because from this expected value of qi,
or expected value of gi squared we'll get
some just constant respect to parameters.
And we'll have to maximize in
respect to parameter's data.
And this can be done analytically so
we can just compute the gradient and
set it to 0 and compute the theta.
So this was kind of hand wavy explanation
why Is not hard in this case.
And as we already discussed,
this probabilistic formulation of PCA
allows you to do a few cool things.
So first of all you can extend you mole
to be able to handle missing data.
Might just computing this missing
values to be latent tables and
then applying this And you have to
just extend the scheme a little bit,
to handle these new latent variables.
While second of all, it gives you
a straightforward way to build
an iterative scheme, to compute the PCA.
So even if you don't have missing values,
in some cases,
if you have for example,
really high-dimensional space originally.
And you want to project into
a really small dimensional space,
the PCA can be slow and it can be fostered
to use into some iterative scheme.
And of course there are several
iterative schemes for
doing PCA from linear algebra coming into.
But it's resulted, well you have to
know linear algebra to derive them.
You have to think carefully and
it's not that straightforward.
But expectation maximization just gave you
a straightforward way to
compute some iterative scheme.
Which can be more efficient than the
original PCA in some cases, like when you
have much general amount of the original
data than the lower general soft space.
So you don't have to think that much, you
can just apply the And see what happens.
Another cool feature of probabilistic
PCA is now that you have this base
line probabilistic model,
you can do a mixture of them,
if the flexibility of your
original PCA is not enough.
So you can easily extend your
model to be more flexible, and
then everything is not
on the display any more.
But you're still going to still apply And
compute some solutions, so
string the model.
And finally, and
it's sometimes helps with tuning
hyperparameters to treat
everything probabilistically.
Because it allows you to tune
the hyperparameters by tracking the low
likelihood recommendation set,
which is sometimes not feasible
with non-probabilistic models
with unsupervised data sets.
And for example you can choose within
using the full covariance matrix sigma and
using just diagonal approximation of that.
So they have much different,
very different number of parameters.
And you can choose between these
two by just considering the local
likelihood on the relation set.
And in principle you can
improve your solution
to this unsupervised problem.
[SOUND]